Computer Science vs Software Engineering
-
Computer science: understanding how computers work and function; making a computer do things.  
Software engineering: building the right software for the right people, and making sure it's maintainable over time as it grows and people working on it change.  
In other words: SE is the area of CS that makes things for people to use

IEEE Definition of Software Engineering
-
"The application of a systematic, disciplined, quantifiable approach to the development, operation, and maintenance of software, and the study of these approaches; that is, the application of engineering to software."

Qualities of a Good Software Engineer:
-
- know the problem you're solving
- code resists regressions when it changes over time (from problem or people)
- verify the software is correct to ensure it's as safe as possible
- purpose of software is to make it available for use
- work together with a group of people

Although the code I write is for machines to use, it's important to consider other humans who read it

Course Structure
-
- requirements
- design
- development
- correctness
- projects
- coding together
- full-stack

Topic - Requirements
-
Understand a problem we're solving.  
If we don't do this, we might build something that works well, but for the wrong purpose.
This entails:
- requirement engineering
- use cases
- validation

Topic - Design
-
Set up good system architecture and write elegant code.
This entails:
- model systems & their complexity
- write graceful & thoughtful code

Topic - Development
-
Actually code "the thing".  
Done in Javascript in this course.

Topic - Correctness
-
Software needs to be as verifiably correct as possible.  
We need confidence that it's doing "the thing" correctly.  
This entails:
- testing code statically and dynamically
- exceptions
- code coverage
- linting

Topic - Projects
-
Code will need to be given to other people.  
This entails:
- manage multi-package projects
- continuous & automated way to integrate multiple people's code
- deploy code to "users"

Topic - Coding Together
-
Teamwork = people + tools.  
This entails:
- version control software between people
- functioning as a group of programmers

Topic - Full-Stack
-
Many software projects are now web-based; have frontends & backends.  
This entails:
- using HTTP & data layers to write a functioning server
